User Lockout docs (#474)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/security/programmatically-lock-user-accounts.mdx

---

> title: Programmatically locking and unlocking user accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Programmatically lock and unlock user accounts
```

description: Lock users to prevent them from signing in based on your own custom criteria.
---

> # Programmatically locking and unlocking user accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Programmatically lock and unlock user accounts
```

## Unlocking a user programmatically

You can programmatically unlock a user using the [UnlockUser](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api/tag/Users#operation/LockUser) Backend API operation. 

## Usecases

> ### "Unlock button"

Reviewer: Why don't we have code examples for these? Maybe not for the entire use case, but at least to demonstrate how to call the backend api endpoint.
There's no information on whether calling it requires parameters, what it returns, etc.

> Your custom sign-in page could expose a button or link to request an unlock token when they are locked out of their account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your custom sign-in page could expose a button or link that allows the user to request an unlock token when they are locked out of their account.
```

* Your app should be able to generate a random unlock token and associate it with the user.
* The unlock token can be sent to the user via email or SMS.
* After successful entry of the unlock token, your app's backend can issue an unlock request to the Clerk Backend API.

### Send an unlock request to an admin

If your app supports users submitting admin requests, it could expose a way of requesting an admin unlock.

* A request for unlock could arrive in your app's admin dashboard.
* If an admin reviews the request and decides to grant access back to the user, they can request an unlock from your app's backend, which should in turn call the Clerk Backend API.

> # Locking a user programmatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Lock a user programmatically
```

> You can programmatically lock a user based on your own custom criteria, e.g. if they are violating your app's code of conduct.
> 
> You can do so via the [LockUser](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api/tag/Users#operation/LockUser) Backend API operation. Keep in mind that Clerk will still lock the user based on failed verification attempts.

Reviewer: This should follow the same structure as the "Unlock a user programmatically" section. So something like this:

```suggestion
You can programmatically lock a user using the  [LockUser](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api/tag/Users#operation/LockUser) Backend API operation. Keep in mind that Clerk will still lock the user based on failed verification attempts.

### Use cases

* If a user is violating your app's code of conduct.
```

---
title: Programmatically lock and unlock user accounts
description: Lock users to prevent them from signing in based on your own custom criteria.
---

# Programmatically lock and unlock user accounts

## Unlocking a user programmatically

You can programmatically unlock a user using the [UnlockUser](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api/tag/Users#operation/LockUser) Backend API operation. 

## Usecases

> ### "Unlock button"

Reviewer: Just realized all of these headings are out of order. 
So it should be
## Unlocking a user programmatically
### Use cases
#### Unlock button
#### Send an unlock request to an admin
